
## Minutes: Credible Web CG SUBGROUP 1 on Inspection (04 June 2018)

* [Agenda](https://credweb.org/agenda/20180604.html)
* Attendees:
Amy Zhang,
An Xiao Mina,
Connie Moon Sehat,
Davide Ceolin,
Dwight Knell,
Ed Summers,
John Connuck,
Newton Calegari,
Owen Ambur,
Rhiaro (Amy Guy),
Sandro Hawke,
Scott Yates

* Scribe(s): John Connuck

### Topics

1. [Credibility Coalition WebConf paper](#credibility-coalition-webconf-paper)
1. [Promising indicators:   Emotionally charged tone](#promising-indicators-emotionally-charged-tone)
1. [Promising indicators:  Clickbait Headline](#promising-indicators-clickbait-headline)
1. [Promising indicators: Accuracy of Representation of source article](#accuracy-of-representation-of-source-article)
1. [Next Steps](#next-steps)

### Minutes

<a id="1528128450" href="#1528128450">#</a> [Sandro Hawke] *https://credweb.org/agenda/20180604.html*

### Credibility Coalition WebConf paper

<a id="1528128643" href="#1528128643">#</a> [An Xiao Mina] *Web Conference deck: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/11MzfbhicQG5jNwrilr8DXPbFuRVuyw4t1xCowb0HfTo/edit#slide=id.g3880518423_0_0*

<a id="1528128785" href="#1528128785">#</a> **An Xiao Mina** says:  "We reviewed 50 articles for the indicators on slide 12. Slide 20 has the indicators that were found to correlate with credibility"

<a id="1528128819" href="#1528128819">#</a> .. number of ads doesn't seem to have a correlation with credibility, but aggressiveness of ads does. Next study will follow up in more depth

<a id="1528128987" href="#1528128987">#</a> **Sandro Hawke** says:  "What makes a good indicator (item 4 on the agenda)? Studies covered correlation to credibility but didn't mention security. We should have a table of "good" indicators. This includes both inter-rater reliability and correlation with credibility"

<a id="1528129012" href="#1528129012">#</a> **An Xiao Mina** says: they hired both experts and students to rate and compared the results

<a id="1528129100" href="#1528129100">#</a> **Amy Zhang** says:  can we add whether an indicator is relevant to multiple users

<a id="1528129157" href="#1528129157">#</a> **Sandro Hawke** says:  three variables, @**Amy Zhang** wants to add salience

<a id="1528129189" href="#1528129189">#</a> **Sandro Hawke** says: dimensions from agenda are: measurability, accuracy and security

<a id="1528129216" href="#1528129216">#</a> **Sandro Hawke** says:  does comprehensibility cover what you're talking about?

<a id="1528129228" href="#1528129228">#</a> **Amy Zhang** says:  "more like relevance"

<a id="1528129298" href="#1528129298">#</a> **An Xiao Mina** says: study focuses on articles rating to public health and climate science. There's a body of research to lean on. Domain experts in these areas for points of reference. CredCo members have expertise in these areas

<a id="1528129376" href="#1528129376">#</a> **An Xiao Mina** says:  next area is disaster response. Starting with the domains with narrower range of factual disagreement

<a id="1528129391" href="#1528129391">#</a> .. trying to validate the process

<a id="1528129574" href="#1528129574">#</a> **Connie** says: "while there are legitimate times when experts disagree about facts, could we support agreed upon ranges? I.e. Harvard says there are 20k deaths in Puerto Rico and New York Times says 70k, but it's definitely not 100.

### Promising indicators:   Emotionally charged tone

<a id="1528129713" href="#1528129713">#</a> [Sandro Hawke] *"outrage, snark, celebration, horror, etc"*

<a id="1528129715" href="#1528129715">#</a> **An Xiao Mina** says:  indicator was framed as, "Does the article have an emotionally charged tone". Raters highlighted specific passages. Next step is to define this more narrowly (listed as outrage, snark, celebration, horror, etc.)

<a id="1528129734" href="#1528129734">#</a> .. emotions are very culturally specific

<a id="1528129738" href="#1528129738">#</a> [Sandro Hawke] *culturally specific, subject specific, personal specific*

<a id="1528129767" href="#1528129767">#</a> [An Xiao Mina] *https://credweb.org/cciv/r/1#emotionally-charged-tone*

<a id="1528129776" href="#1528129776">#</a> **Sandro Hawke** says:  "This feels like a case where security is possible. I don't think you can really game this indicator."

<a id="1528129887" href="#1528129887">#</a> [Sandro Hawke] *valence, positive vs negative tone*

<a id="1528129904" href="#1528129904">#</a> **Connie** says: NLP classifier called Vador analyzes "tone" of text (positive or negative). Beyond that, but there's an element of directionality (i.e. is the article trying to invoke some action)?

<a id="1528129990" href="#1528129990">#</a> **Amy Zhang** says:  we have a related indicator for "exaggerated claims"

<a id="1528129998" href="#1528129998">#</a> **An Xiao Mina** says:  "I like the valence angle"

<a id="1528130010" href="#1528130010">#</a> **Sandro Hawke** says: serious users don't use sarcasm

<a id="1528130038" href="#1528130038">#</a> **An Xiao Mina** says:  true, but hard to detect. Also not true in an op-ed

<a id="1528130093" href="#1528130093">#</a> **Sandro Hawke** says:  "Does everyone agree with my assessment that this is a non-game-able (secure) indicator?"

<a id="1528130103" href="#1528130103">#</a> [John Connuck] * @**Amy Zhang** says, "it's easy to verify unlike some other indicators"*

<a id="1528130135" href="#1528130135">#</a> **Sandro Hawke** says:  I mean can bad actors easily change their behavior to get around the indicator

<a id="1528130151" href="#1528130151">#</a> **Amy Zhang** says:  there are two aspects to security, 1. verifiability and 2. gameability

<a id="1528130174" href="#1528130174">#</a> **An Xiao Mina** says:  "Can we take any learnings from clickbait and spam?"

<a id="1528130227" href="#1528130227">#</a> [Sandro Hawke] *"get rich" spam, similar triggers*

<a id="1528130254" href="#1528130254">#</a> **Amy Zhang** says:  "There are some good parallels with spam. Both content analysis and contextual analysis to determine whether something is spam"

### Promising indicators :  Clickbait Headline

<a id="1528130350" href="#1528130350">#</a> **An Xiao Mina** says:  Clickbait headline is related to emotional tone. @**Amy Zhang** developed a topology of clickbait types

<a id="1528130405" href="#1528130405">#</a> [An Xiao Mina] *here's one headline assessed as clickbaity by annotators: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/11MzfbhicQG5jNwrilr8DXPbFuRVuyw4t1xCowb0HfTo/edit#slide=id.g38d3ddfe32_2_30*

<a id="1528130410" href="#1528130410">#</a> **Amy Zhang** says:  There are different definitions of clickbait across sites and platforms, so this includes multiple types of clickbait

<a id="1528130431" href="#1528130431">#</a> [Sandro Hawke] *https://credweb.org/cciv/r/1#clickbait-genres*

<a id="1528130477" href="#1528130477">#</a> **Amy Zhang** says:  this came from existing research, but not a rigorously tested taxonomy

<a id="1528130546" href="#1528130546">#</a> **Amy Zhang** says:  "This was a clickbaity scale rather than a binary decision"

<a id="1528130636" href="#1528130636">#</a> **Amy Zhang** says:  Hypothesis is that clickbait is correlated to credibility because it tends to give deference to ads or impressions over truth or user experience

<a id="1528130644" href="#1528130644">#</a> [Sandro Hawke] *Hi-Cred articles can be clickbait-y*

### Accuracy of Representation of source article

<a id="1528130823" href="#1528130823">#</a> **An Xiao Mina** says:  "We asked annotators to assess how accurately the scientific sources are represented in the news article. Tough to assess. Requires a lot of work and there are blockers (like initial source is behind a paywall).

<a id="1528130834" href="#1528130834">#</a> [An Xiao Mina] *https://credweb.org/cciv/r/1#accuracy-of-representation-of-source-article*

<a id="1528130878" href="#1528130878">#</a> **An Xiao Mina** says:  "If I recall this is one of the most tightly correlated with credibility"

<a id="1528130893" href="#1528130893">#</a> **Sandro Hawke** says:  "This seems like one of the most expensive to measure"

<a id="1528130909" href="#1528130909">#</a> **An Xiao Mina** says:  "Yeah, this is very labor intensive and requires annotators who can do close reading of the text"

<a id="1528130927" href="#1528130927">#</a> **Sandro Hawke** says:  "Can we separate measurability into IRR and cost/time"

<a id="1528130942" href="#1528130942">#</a> **Sandro Hawke** says:  "In the study did you measure time spent on indicators?"

<a id="1528130951" href="#1528130951">#</a> **An Xiao Mina** says:  "Not for specific indicators, only overall"

<a id="1528130989" href="#1528130989">#</a> **Amy Zhang** says:  "We also need to take into account the credibility of the source"

<a id="1528131033" href="#1528131033">#</a> **Amy Zhang** says:  "For source credibility, we focused on the impact factor of the journal (which also has problems, but it's the best available measure)"

<a id="1528131052" href="#1528131052">#</a> **An Xiao Mina** says:  number of citations is also a proxy for credibility

<a id="1528131068" href="#1528131068">#</a> [Ed Summers] *Number of citations is basically the same thing as impact factor.*

<a id="1528131116" href="#1528131116">#</a> **John Connuck** says: something like pagerank -- eg number of citations -- might help and scale beyond just science journals

<a id="1528131204" href="#1528131204">#</a> **Amy Zhang** says:  "This is very related to the reputation question"

<a id="1528131229" href="#1528131229">#</a> [An Xiao Mina] *the :turtle: problem is a nice way to talk about some of these indicators*

<a id="1528131301" href="#1528131301">#</a> **Amy Zhang** says:  "You should be able to ask annotators whether the facts match between article and source, which is easier than asking about the recursive credibility/reputation of the source"

<a id="1528131308" href="#1528131308">#</a> **Sandro Hawke** says: can you just use the abstract?

<a id="1528131325" href="#1528131325">#</a> **An Xiao Mina** says:  "It's possible paywalls are actually fueling misinfo because details are behind paywall vs. just the abstract"

<a id="1528131415" href="#1528131415">#</a> [An Xiao Mina] *^ this could inform a possible focus area for our next study*

<a id="1528131448" href="#1528131448">#</a> **Connie Moon Sehat** says: post-fukashima ocean currents graphics mis-used

<a id="1528131480" href="#1528131480">#</a> **Connie** says: there are high quality citations but the data is misused

<a id="1528131493" href="#1528131493">#</a> [Ed Summers] *Image provenance is an interesting angle: e.g. google reverse image search, tin eye.*

### Next Steps

<a id="1528131565" href="#1528131565">#</a> **Sandro Hawke** says:  another meeting like this with more detail

<a id="1528131573" href="#1528131573">#</a> [Scott Yates] *And just for people willing to listen to some country music: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LWx6csgGkg4*

<a id="1528131587" href="#1528131587">#</a> **Sandro Hawke** says:  Would people be willing to meet in smaller groups to go through the different dimensions for various indicators?

<a id="1528131628" href="#1528131628">#</a> **An Xiao Mina** says:  would like to focus on ad indicators. Especially with people with ad-tech experience

<a id="1528131653" href="#1528131653">#</a> **An Xiao Mina**, Scott Yates** says:  "This size feels good"

<a id="1528131700" href="#1528131700">#</a> **Sandro Hawke** says:  "Same time two weeks from now?"

<a id="1528131777" href="#1528131777">#</a> [An Xiao Mina] *quick show of thumbs - how useful was this meeting as a focus area? i really appreciated everyone's feedback*

<a id="1528138361" href="#1528138361">#</a> [Davide Ceolin] *Pretty much. Among other things, I think that there's a lot of partially overlapping definitions around and it's interesting to clarify and discuss them in detail.*

